Trump campaign announces speakers for Madison Square Garden rally including Vance, Musk and RFK Jr.
From CNN's Kit Maher
The Trump campaign on Friday released a lengthy list of speakers for former President Donald Trump’s rally at Madison Square Garden on Sunday.

In addition to Trump’s running mate JD Vance, who CNN had already reported was speaking, Elon Musk, House Speaker Mike Johnson, New York Rep. Elise Stefanik, former presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy Jr., former Trump attorney and New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Eric Trump and Donald Trump Jr. are also speaking.

Former Democratic Rep. Tulsi Gabbard — who recently announced she is joining the Republican Party — far-right personality Tucker Carlson and UFC chief Dana White are also on the speaker lineup.

 
1:12 a.m. EST, October 26, 2024
Trump responds to Hillary Clinton criticism of his Madison Square Garden rally
From CNN's Ali Main and Alayna Treene in Traverse City, Michigan
Republican presidential nominee, former President Donald Trump arrives for a campaign rally in Traverse City, Michigan, on October 25, 2024.
Republican presidential nominee, former President Donald Trump arrives for a campaign rally in Traverse City, Michigan, on October 25, 2024. Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images
Former President Donald Trump on Friday brought up how former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, his 2016 rival, compared his upcoming Madison Square Garden rally on Sunday to the 1939 Nazi rally that took place in the same arena.

“I guess in the 1930s or something, some guy who was inclined toward the Nazis had something, and she said it’s just like the 1930s. No, no, this is called ‘Make America Great Again,’” he said at a rally in Michigan, adding, “I don’t know what’s going on with her.”

In an interview on CNN on Thursday, Clinton said the former president is “actually renacting” the event that sparked mass counter protests in New York City, during a broader conversation about Trump’s former chief of staff saying he meets the definition of a fascist.

“I don’t think we can ignore it,” Clinton said, acknowledging the comparison “may be a leap for some people,” but encouraged people to “open your eyes to the danger that this man poses to our country, because I think this is clear and present for anybody paying attention.”

In Michigan, Trump also again compared Detroit to a “developing nation,” as he did while speaking in the state earlier this month. “They say I’m disparaging … I’m not disparaging. I’m telling you the facts. You need businesses to come back into this place,” he said of the city, which now celebrates its revival.

 
12:48 a.m. EST, October 26, 2024
In Michigan, Trump attacks Harris over her star-studded Texas event
From CNN's Ali Main and Alayna Treene in Traverse City, Michigan
Former President Donald Trump accused Vice President Kamala Harris of being “out partying” and ignoring international turmoil as the Democratic presidential nominee held a rally featuring music superstar Beyoncé.

“Tonight she’s out partying. So, Israel is attacking, we got a war going on, and she’s out partying. At least we’re working to make America great again, that’s what we’re doing,” he told the crowd at his rally in Traverse City, Michigan, where he began speaking three hours late after getting delayed taping a podcast.

Later in his remarks, Trump said, “Nobody’s in charge. Joe Biden is asleep. Kamala is at a dance party with Beyonce.”

Harris held a rally in Texas on Friday, focused on highlighting her defense of reproductive rights. She was joined by Houston native Beyoncé, who spoke in support of the vice president but did not perform. Before both Harris and Trump spoke at evening campaign events, Israel launched strikes on Iran.

Trump also accused Harris of “leading a hate campaign now,” reflecting on the vice president’s new closing message focused on hammering her GOP rival on his character, accusing him of having an “enemies list” while she has a “to-do list.”

“They started off where I was a dictator. None of it worked. Then they went to he’s an evil genius. That didn’t work. Then they went … he’s a dumb son of a b*tch. That didn’t last long. That didn’t last too long. Then they went back to the dictator stuff,” he said, calling his Demorcatic rivals “poor lost souls.”